
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<!-- badges: start -->
[![tic](https://github.com/adamhsparks/epirice/workflows/tic/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/adamhsparks/epirice/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/adamhsparks/epirice/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=NWrKsX9MaP)](https://codecov.io/gh/adamhsparks/epirice)
[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable state and is being actively developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
<!-- badges: end -->

# epirice

A fork of the R [cropsim
package](https://r-forge.r-project.org/R/?group_id=335) designed to make
using the EPIRICE model for rice diseases easier to use. This version
provides easy to use functions to fetch weather data from NASA POWER,
via the [*nasapower*](https://cran.r-project.org/package=nasapower)
package and predict disease severity of five rice diseases using a
generic SEIR model (Zadoks 1971) function, `SEIR()`.

The original manuscript, Savary et al. (2012), which details the model
and results of its use to model global epidemics of rice diseases was
published in Crop Protection detailing global disease risk of five major
rice diseases, bacterial blight, brown spot, leaf blast, sheath blight
and tungro.

# Installation

`epirice` is not yet on CRAN. You can install it this way.

``` r
if (!require("remotes"))
  install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("adamshsparks/epirice"
)
```

# Meta

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to
abide by its terms.

# References

Serge Savary, Andrew Nelson, Laetitia Willocquet, Ireneo Pangga and
Jorrel Aunario. Modeling and mapping potential epidemics of rice
diseases globally. *Crop Protection*, Volume 34, 2012, Pages 6-17, ISSN
0261-2194 DOI:
[10.1016/j.cropro.2011.11.009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cropro.2011.11.009).

Systems Analysis and the Dynamics of Epidemics. J. C. Zadoks, Laboratory
of Phytopathology, Agricultural University, Wageningen, The Netherlands;
*Phytopathology* 61:600. DOI:
[10.1094/Phyto-61-600](https://doi.org/10.1094/Phyto-61-600).
